My name is Steve Parker.
I am the lead of a fairly new team,
the server performance
team inside 10 Server.
And I am here to share with you
some of the great stuff that's
new in Leopard and Snow Leopard.
I'm not sure I'm going to be able
to compete with the entertainment
level at the bash last night.
I assume some of you enjoyed that.
Thank you.
Yeah?
All right.
So my entertainment is going
to be a much geekier sort.
It's going to be about systems
and making them fast and scalable.
So here we go.
Can I get the – there we go.
Basically, the talk today,
I'm going to begin by talking about
software-specific performance gains.
I'm going to talk a little bit
about how the hardware has improved
over even just the last year.
And then I'm going to talk about how
to approach setting up a Leopard server
system and getting the most out of it.
And then finally,
I'm going to go through – and this
is the bulk of the talk – is actually
going to be about diagnosing –
performance problems and what you can
do on OS X to work out those things.
So first of all,
I'm going to begin by running through
a couple of the key performance
gains that stand out in Leopard.
The first one I wanted to talk about,
this is 10 gigabit ethernet.
This is based on 1,500 byte MTU packets,
so actually challenging the
OS with lots of little packets.
This is over 1.4 times better in Leopard.
AFP file sharing is over 2x.
This is almost entirely
SMP scalability improvements,
so it's putting all of those
cores in new systems to work.
And this is a model that we have that
simulates a corporate support site,
sort of like support Applecom.
So this is based on using
Apache on our system,
simulating a site with CGI that
actually consults a back-end
database that presents images,
downloads,
all that kind of stuff over 3X.
So how's that?
So you might be asking,
how do you do that?
That's an awfully big game.
So one of the things that Tiger had
was a thing called the funnel lock.
The funnel lock, unfortunately,
was across about 80
different system calls.
And this is an example of a timeline
of a hypothetical mail server,
web server, and pop client.
And you notice what there
are is a lot of gap in there.
And that gap was because this
was a single global lock,
and you couldn't be in any one of those
system calls on more than one core.
And this was probably the biggest single
difficulty for server performance.
Select was one of those system calls,
and as many of you know,
that's key in many server applications.
Leopard, gone.
So all of these system calls
now proceed in parallel.
And the result is a significant
part of those gains that you see in,
for example, web performance.
Something else that wasn't very good
in Tiger was the way the networking
stack worked for multi-core,
and in particular, the mBuffs,
which are used for network buffering.
So those are a global pool,
and that global pool meant
that as you were processing,
any time you needed to get or
return an mBuff from the pool,
you were stuck behind a global lock.
And so only one of those CPUs could
actually be getting work done.
And if you failed to get that lock,
you'd get rescheduled.
So that meant your cache gets dumped,
something else tries to start running,
and if you're unlucky,
that something else also
tries to go after that lock.
That's bad.
In Leopard, a new architecture
that we call the MCache
has been implemented and although it
still has a global lock across the
original mBuff pool at the bottom edge,
it has a set of depots which is broken
up by different sizes of mBuffs.
So when you go to allocate,
several allocations can
in fact go on at once.
That's great,
but there's yet one more change,
which is allocations from
those depots can be in groups.
So, for example, if the TCP stack has a
megabyte of data thrown at it,
it can reach down to the depot and
grab all of the mBufs that it's going
to need for that in a single call.
And then once this group of
mBuffs has moved up and is
in use by a particular core,
there is a per CPU magazine
and it will use it,
return it to the magazine,
and if shortly thereafter
there's need for mBuffs again,
it will simply grab it
out of the magazine.
And that doesn't entail a
global lock that proceeds in
parallel across all of the CPUs.
So this is the next biggest
element of those really
substantial performance gains.
Finally, something else in TIGER,
TCP input processing was
restricted to a single CPU.
So that meant that no matter how
many networks you stacked up,
it was all going to get
shuttled across to one core.
That core would do the processing,
and it would have to migrate back
out to the individual applications.
No more in Leopard.
Network interface is assigned a
separate CPU to do the TCP input
processing so that all of those
networks proceed in parallel.
And those web performance results
you see are based on using many NICs,
not just one.
So, all right, well that's Leopard,
but Leopard's kind of yesterday.
So Snow Leopard is the future now.
And why don't we take a look at what
the web performance in Snow Leopard is.
Well,
we're up to 4.34 times the performance
of Tiger and a huge jump against Leopard.
So how did you do that?
Right?
First it's three times faster,
now it's 4.34.
Well, first of all,
still in Leopard was a
global lock for IP routes.
So that meant that at the IP layer,
everything was having to
contend across a single lock.
They weren't necessarily
using the same information,
but the lock had too wide a scope.
So this is now broken up in Leopard.
That is in addition to adding
TCP segment offloading support.
So NIC drivers are now able,
if the hardware is capable,
of volunteering and saying,
you can send me megabytes of
data and I'll just break it up
and compute the TCP headers,
checksums, all that kind of stuff
taken care of for you.
That gains back a bunch of additional
CPU that you can do web processing with.
[Transcript missing]
So there are some other gains
in Snow Leopard that I think
are really outstanding.
One of them is that although late
in Tiger we introduced 64-bit user
processes and you could have far more
than 4 gigabytes of memory in a map,
each individual map was
limited to 4 gigabyte in size.
That limitation has been removed.
In addition, although M-Advise had always
been one of the system calls,
the virtual memory system
didn't actually use it.
So M-Advise and Snow Leopard now
allows you a lot of creative and
interesting ways to work with the
VM system to get better performance.
An example of that is that you can
M-Map a private memory region to
create a large chunk of memory.
You can reach a point in your
program where you decide,
I'm done with it,
but I might want to use it later.
And this was a 4-gigabyte segment.
I spent a lot of time
getting that set up,
but I can tell the OS,
those pages have nothing valid in them,
but I don't want to tear down the map.
You get to keep all that
expensive virtual memory
mapping work that's been done,
but if you go touch those pages,
they'll be filled in with zero-based
pages if the VM system ended up
taking those pages from your process
later on to help another process.
In addition, as disks grow in size,
you want to do I/Os in fairly big chunks.
The cluster I/O size within
the kernel has been increased
from 1 megabyte to 16 megabyte,
provides some substantial increases in
performance where you're streaming data.
Besides the VM page queue lock,
there are a bunch of other
changes that I can't go into.
There are too many and too complicated
to explain in the amount of time I have.
I would be happy to discuss that
more in our lab this afternoon,
however.
But they remove a number
of additional global locks,
reduce the amount of time under locks,
and generally improve the parallel
execution on Snow Leopard.
And finally,
there are two other interrelated things
that you won't enjoy the benefits from
unless you go out of your way to do
so in the Snow Leopard seed build,
but will be in the general release,
which are a range of
higher resource limits,
including things like the
maximum number of... the number
of files you can have open,
as well as the maximum
number of processes.
and the 64-bit kernel.
How many of you went to the K64 talk?
Not too many.
Okay.
Well, so in the server world,
one of the key bits of news
is that the kernel now has
its own 64-bit address space.
Server applications benefit a lot
because the file system metadata
cache and other internal structures
can grow to appropriate sizes
for really substantial workloads.
Okay, so is Snow Leopard better?
Well, first I guess I want
to talk a little bit,
one of the things that Apple has been
involved with is the updating of specSFS.
Spec.org is one of the outstanding
industry organizations for auditable,
verifiable benchmarks,
and we are particularly proud
to have been involved with this
update of what had originally
been an NFS-only benchmark,
and it now supports both NFS and Samba.
And it is extremely rigorous.
In particular,
it's careful to make sure that
it watches its own behavior.
So it doesn't just issue an op.
It looks at the clock and says, okay,
I issued it now, and it's done now,
and I'm doing ops at this rate.
The latency is this much on average.
The standard deviation is this much.
And it reports all that information back.
Makes it an extremely hard benchmark
to do anything that isn't extremely
clear and obvious what you've done.
So there's no tricking this benchmark.
So we released the first commercial
posting of spec SFS with the release
of the benchmark against Leopard,
8,000 ops per second.
One thing to notice is that
the overall response time
on that is 1.4 milliseconds.
The disk drives on it
have a far longer latency.
One of the things that means is that
you're not bottlenecked on the disks.
Yesterday we posted this
new Snow Leopard result.
This is 18,500 ops per second and
a substantially higher latency.
It's at least a 50% increase in latency
because we are finally reaching the point
where we have utilized all of that XServe
and our bottlenecked on the disk drives.
SpecSFS is a benchmark that
normally you would expect to be
limited by the disk throughput.
So I wanted to dive down a
little bit into these results and
talk about the CPU utilization.
So notice that on Leopard,
we were basically not able to put
all eight of those cores to work.
On Snow Leopard,
we are able to get extremely close
to putting all eight cores 100%
on the job to service that NFS.
But notice something else.
Notice that...
[Transcript missing]
That just underscores the gain here.
So what used to be adequate 48,
15 case hash drives is now
not adequate in Snow Leopard.
And then,
just as a sort of a geeky footnote,
to put this in perspective,
one of the really demanding moments
of the benchmark is actually
where it creates the file set.
So the file set is 0.6
terabytes to run this test.
It creates it at 540
megabytes a second sustained.
And this is not IO zone
against a raw disk.
This is file system activity creating
a directory tree with real file names
just like it would be used in practice.
So we are extremely
happy with these results,
and we look forward to even
more gains in the future.
So, so far I've talked strictly
about the software.
So that's not the only story here.
Since the transition to Intel,
we have two XSERVs that have shipped,
both a four core Woodcrest based system
and an eight core Penryn based system.
The spec CPU numbers,
so the basic integer SMP score is 2.17x.
with SpecJBB.
Now,
SpecJBB is a user-bound process that uses
Java to simulate an order entry system,
order entry and inventory system, 2.2x.
And finally,
just memory bandwidth using the
stream performance benchmark 1.6x.
So add those both together and you
get a stunningly faster system.
So now I want to move to talking
about what it is that you can
do to ensure that you get the
most out of that server system.
So...
Keep in mind,
if nothing else from this talk,
this is an era where the server
is a big brain that's connected
by a lot of little pipes.
So to put this in perspective,
that NFS result is based
on six gigabit subnets,
4.6 gigabits of aggregate traffic,
four gigabit fiber channel links
to that big array of disk drives.
So one of the key parts of the
problem of getting the most
out of server performance is
balancing those different pipes,
making sure that you
actually put them to use,
because if you don't,
the power of that server in the
middle may not be a benefit to you.
So now I want to start talking about
some very particular bits of planning.
First of all,
remember I mentioned that each NIC gets
a specific CPU for its input processing.
So this diagram
is a reminder that if you choose
to bond several of your NICs
into the switch with 802.3ad,
you will in fact be ensuring
that the input side processing
is bound to a single CPU.
So if you have a choice between bonding
or multiple subnets with multiple NICs,
I would recommend that you
go with multiple subnets.
If you don't,
the next question is whether
or not you will have a heavy
degree of input traffic.
If it does have a heavy
degree of input traffic,
this could become a bottleneck.
So let's
If we talk about other
aspects of network planning,
if you have a substantial number
of clients that are across a
significant network latency,
so far across the country, the world,
so if you're talking to iPhones
as they wander around the world,
one of the things you may find is
that the default network buffer pools
are not necessarily large enough
to service that load in Leopard.
And in particular,
you can use this series of tunings,
first of all running NVRAM boot
args to determine what the
current system boot arguments are.
Then adding an NCL equal value and then
rebooting allows you to modify that pool.
And I'll talk later on about
how to decide when that pool
needs to be increased in size
and how to choose that size.
So those were a couple of recommendations
I wanted to make about networking.
Now let's talk about storage.
So this is just the supported
list for the Intel XServe.
So the key takeaway here is there are a
lot of different choices in your storage.
And I've put details in the
slides about those tradeoffs.
I'm not going to go over them here.
But you should think carefully about
what use you will put your server to and
make sure that you've chosen a storage
pool that's appropriate for your storage.
So for example, with the NFS benchmark,
it was very clear that if
I was going to get the maximum,
I needed a very fast storage pool.
And unless I mention otherwise,
that's probably the storage
subsystem I'm using in this talk.
So once you've chosen what you're
going to actually store it on,
you need to decide how
it's going to be organized.
So we have several
different choices here.
One is XAN.
This is especially good choice when
you need scalable IO bandwidth,
when you want to be able to
incrementally increase the amount
of traffic to a file system,
and especially if it's a large data set.
And so you are not going to want to
reformat it or move it in any way.
So XAN is an excellent choice for that.
If the utilization of the files is
strictly local to each system or if
you're intending to reshare it via NFS,
AFP, or SMB,
you should choose HFS Plus today.
That does have one drawback,
which is HFS+ has a single B-tree,
single catalog file.
That's a serializing point when
there is a substantial rate of
change on the file system metadata.
So adding new files, removing files,
appending to files.
Those operations have a limited
scalability on systems today.
So in that case,
you may wish to consider how many file
systems that you need to break that into.
And finally, as we announced at the 10
Server State of the Union,
ZFS is going to be supported.
So we are very excited about that,
and that does remove many of those
scalability limits that HFS+ has.
We look forward to that as
something moving forward.
Finally,
here's a collection of a bunch of the
services that come with 10 Server.
So in particular, those four at the top,
When you are planning a
multi-machine deployment,
one of the things that you should not
do is divide it up in that kind of way.
All of those services at the top are
what I call multi-process services.
So they are starting multiple
processes to do their work.
So for example, for SMB,
there is a daemon present for every
SMB connection on that server.
There is a 2500 process
link to the server.
There is a limit in Leopard,
and that limit can very quickly
become a constraining factor.
So instead,
a far better approach is to begin by
thinking about those multi-process
services and choosing to divide
those up across different systems,
and then,
based on what capacity is left over,
choose to assign different services
to the various servers that you have.
have.
So those are the choices to keep
in mind as you plan 10 server
installations for performance.
There's one other thing that I wanted
to just mention more so you would be
aware and for troubleshooting purposes,
which is somewhere late in Tiger,
a file called etsyrc.server
slipped into the release.
That file is our sort
of tuning master pilot.
And what it does is it makes
a variety of adjustments to
the behavior of the system.
So in particular,
if you're in a situation
where you have an OS X system,
desktop system, and a server,
and one of them acts differently,
if it's a performance-related tuning,
this is probably where it is.
This is probably where
the difference comes from.
In particular,
we set TCP behavior to be more
friendly to Windows TCP implementation.
And most of the other ones
are all memory-dependent.
They are things like the file
system metadata cache and the
maximum number of processes.
Normally,
there's not a reason to change it,
but I wanted you to be aware of it.
Accompanying this talk
is a KBase article,
which will be available shortly.
That KBase article will go into
more detail on what each of those
parameters tunes and when it's used.
And it would be appropriate
for you to make adjustments
if you have a special case.
We hope you don't have special cases.
We do our best to eliminate that.
All right.
So you've done those
things to plan your server.
You've built out the servers,
installed everything.
Now it's running.
How good is it?
How do you tell?
Also associated with that KBase article,
we are releasing a script which
we use a lot called Top Guide.
Now, don't get out your binoculars.
We're not going to ask you to
read the slide at that level.
But Top
I'm going to take the output that
it produces and break it down.
This is basically harvesting top minus
D output and summarizing it over time.
It can save it into a log file
and some other cute little things.
But this is what we use as our
top level as we investigate
how a system is performing.
So for example,
the CPU section breaks down
the percentage CPU utilization
across user system idle as well
as keeping a running average.
Now, obviously, if that had said,
you know, I've got 100% utilization,
well, that's an easy performance problem,
right?
We know that that means an
application is soaking up more
CPU perhaps than we would like.
I'm not actually going
to talk about that case.
I think there's lots of
other developer resources.
What I'd actually like to talk about,
though,
and what I think is often a problem
in the server space is identifying the
when you have an underutilized CPU.
So you push load at your
server more and more,
but there's some point at which it
just stops getting more work done.
There's lots of CPU left.
And if there is not a network or
disk storage bandwidth problem,
one of the key places to look
would be Pthread mutexes.
So you can trace this sum with SHARP,
but it's also very easy to use
the new D-trace-based tool,
PLockstat.
And in particular,
I definitely recommend that you
use the minus C option there.
And this gives you a very quick
way to bore in on occasions
where the PSTAT locking has
caused you performance grief,
in particular where it has put
threads to sleep perhaps needlessly.
They break down into mutex block,
reader-writer block for reader,
and reader-writer block
for writer events.
And in particular,
you can hone in on how often these
things are happening and how long
the total amount of sleep time,
so the total amount of time
threads weren't executing,
is very easily.
And in fact, even in some cases I find
without source code,
it's very easy to look back through
clues from the symbols and get some
idea of what might be going on.
So for example, in this case,
I would in fact be quite concerned.
That one particular lock
that's shown in mutex blocks is
happening thousands of times.
If this is, say, a one-second sample,
that's 3,600 reschedules per second.
This does not sound like efficiency.
So this would be an indication
of underutilized CPU,
and it would be time to go
investigate that application.
All right.
So sometimes, however,
you get an underutilized CPU where it's
not necessarily at the application layer.
One of the possibilities is that you
have an application which is pushing on
the kernel in ways that are aggravating
a lock on resources inside the OS.
So you can get a handle
on that from top-minus-D,
which tells you about
the context switch rate.
In general, if it's under 100,
a smallish number like that,
it's almost certainly not a problem.
A certain amount of context
switching is normal.
I tend to use a sort of a rule of
thumb on current server systems,
so a current Mac Pro or
Intel XServe of 250 a second
or so might get my attention.
Certainly thousands per
second get my attention.
Now, it's not guaranteed that
that's actually a problem.
Some workloads have a need to
very quickly switch between
many different threads,
but in general,
that would be a case where I would be
interested in investigating further.
Finally, I wanted to show you
a couple of key bits.
On D-Trace, there is a facility called
the lock stat provider.
The lock stat provider allows
you to look into kernel locking
primitives and their behavior.
Now, unfortunately,
there's a lot of that activity.
In fact, a normal system has hundreds
of thousands or millions of
lock operations every second.
That's not uncommon.
So very key is to restrict lock
stat provider operations to
using adaptive block if you want
to follow the P-thread mutex,
sorry, the mutex,
kernel mutex blocking activity.
And the same applies
for reader-writer locks.
So trace strictly those block activities,
and that ensures that you don't insert
D-Trace overhead anywhere except in an
instance where you're getting actual
data about a performance problem.
So those are very helpful.
I'll show a sample output of one
of those scripts a little later on.
So let's roll back up.
So we've investigated
the CPU side of things.
Now let's go and look at disk I/O.
So top guide brings together
two pairs of columns.
On the left, the read operations.
On the right, write operations.
And then within each,
the number of unique I/O operations and
the data write in k bytes per second.
So this gives me a way to look
at aggregate level on my server,
how much am I pushing
through the disk subsystem.
And note that this is in
particular what's passing into
and out of the disk drive.
So there may be more file
system activity than this,
but this is what I'm actually
presenting as load to the disk.
And for example,
one of the things that I might
take away from this sample of data,
that through the disk,
I'm actually pushing through the disk.
So this gives me a way to look
at aggregate level on my server,
how much am I pushing
through the disk subsystem.
And note that this is in
particular what's passing into
and out of the disk drive.
So there may be more file
system activity than this,
but this is what I'm actually
presenting as load to the disk.
And for example,
one of the things that I might
take away from this sample of data,
that through the disk,
I'm actually pushing through the disk.
That third line, if I look at both read
and write together,
that's over 230 unique IOs a second.
If I had an XSERV with
a single SATA drive,
I would be concerned.
That's actually pretty high for
a single SATA drive in terms of
the number of IOs per second.
So that actually might be an indication
that it is not always up to the task.
So I mentioned the HFS+ journal.
So it turns out there's a cute
little trick that I wanted to
share with that mutex lock script.
to actually assess journal impact.
So this is the output of that script
and it shows you exactly how many
times per second that something went
to update into a particular HFS plus
file systems journal and blocked.
So that particular stack
trace is unique to that event.
Up at the top it's printing out the
kernel address for that particular file
systems lock and that bottom number
giving you the blocks per second.
So in that case that is probably
indicating that the journal
performance is possibly limiting here.
179 times a second to stop because
you can't get into the journal to
update the file system is pretty
high for most disk subsystems and
it would be huge for a single drive.
Another way that you can go at assessing
whether or not HFS+ journal performance
may be at issue is to use FS Usage.
And I'm also not going to dive into that.
That's a well-established tool
with ADC articles available on it.
But one quick thing
I thought I would point out,
that little W as well
as the number beside it,
that's telling you both
whether there was an IO wait,
as in the thread was put to sleep,
and how long that lasted.
So that select took 1.3 milliseconds
and actually put that process to sleep.
So in addition,
there is another DTrace script
which gives you a sort of load
average for disks called I/O pending.
I also wanted to mention that
Io pending takes a slightly different
argument form than it does on Solaris.
So the minus M option,
which allows you to focus on a volume,
is taking the volume name.
But if you provide that,
you get a breakdown of a
particular volume's IO activity.
And in particular, in this case,
we see that the majority of
the distribution is at zero.
So in fact,
the disk is not very overloaded.
It's got a couple of things.
It's pending once in a while,
but not too bad.
So that's a good tool.
So I wanted to go back up and
dive down into networking.
Networking is certainly an area that
I could spend hours talking about
diagnosing network performance problems,
and there are many, many aspects to it.
But what I do find useful out
of TopGuide is this ability to
get that high-level idea of in
aggregate what the system is doing,
and especially in an implied
deployment kind of situation.
As you get to know the
workload of your server,
you'll have a fairly good idea
of exactly what to expect.
But in particular,
as a result of knowing the
capacity of my setup and my server,
I'm able to look quickly at this
and work out whether or not I'm
getting close to the network limit.
Now,
I also mentioned that NCLEqual parameter.
There are occasions where if
you run out of network buffers,
the behavior of the system is
that it appears to simply freeze.
And this is because its
buffers are all committed.
You send it new traffic.
It has to throw it away.
It doesn't even have a
buffer to respond to a ping.
So, eventually,
if its TCP connections time out,
it may recover, but that is kind of ugly.
What you can do to anticipate and
tune for that is to look at net stat
minus M on your system and follow
those sets of highlighted numbers.
So, if the left and right hand
of either pair get close,
as in the top line,
so those are within a couple
hundred of each other,
less than 10%, that would make me
concerned that this system is at
risk for having network freezes
and that you should consider
increasing the cluster size.
So, in this case, looking at that,
for example,
I might set an NCLEqual to perhaps 16K,
push up that substantially so
that there is enough buffer
pool to keep the network moving.
So that's a key one.
The KBASE article will have some
additional details about the exact
numbers to choose and so forth.
Finally, Spotlight is enabled by
default on all of our systems.
and it indexes your file systems.
It provides delightful value
when you're searching for a file,
but it does come at a cost.
Under particularly heavy write loads,
it has to evaluate and
index all of those files.
So there are several
techniques you can use.
One is simply to look for
MDS and MDS worker processes,
which will indicate
the indexing activity.
You can also choose to selectively
disable indexing on individual files
by creating a zero length dot no index
file beside either a file or directory.
In addition,
if you have particular file sets
that are not of interest to index,
an example might be a MySQL database.
That's probably not very
interesting to have a MyISAM file
pop up in a Spotlight search,
and it probably changes a lot.
So you can organize all of those
files onto a separate file system.
In addition,
if you would like to keep Spotlight's
indexing available at all times,
but reverse the...
put a lower priority on the I/O that
supports spotlight indexing.
Finally, if you want,
you can also just throw
the big red switch.
And that is also, I find,
particularly useful,
because it's a very quick
and easy way to just say,
do I care about spotlight
indexing overhead?
You turn it off, and you watch.
And a few seconds later,
if you can see something on top guide,
then you know you have a
performance issue that big
with the spotlight indexing.
All right.
So that was kind of the survey
of the tools and techniques that
we use as our primary triage
for these particular performance
problems for server performance.
I now wanted to talk about
a real example of this.
So I had a customer that had a
one terabyte production database.
It was extremely critical resource
and it was just not doing much.
It was a tiny amount of CPU.
It was and it didn't
matter what they did.
It just didn't seem to go fast.
So I was working with them
to help examine this problem.
So beginning with top guide,
I ended up being able to very quickly
identify their entire database was
striped with software RAID across
two 750 gigabyte SATA drives.
And the number of IOs per second
that they were throwing at it was
absolutely as much as you could
get out of that class of drive.
So they were IO bound.
By moving them onto SAS drives
for that database was an
immediate 3x gain in performance.
But that 3x gain was a hard cap also.
In particular,
we still found that although we had
lots more I/O capacity now than was
actually being done and the network
traffic to the MySQL database was tiny,
still it wouldn't go any faster.
You could push more load at it,
no faster.
So we ran PLockstat-C.
So with PLockstep-C,
we were able to see that indeed
there was a ton of Pthread
lock thrashing inside MySQL.
So investigation led us to discover that
with MyISAM indexed tables on MySQL,
there is a global key cache by default.
So every single table was
sharing a process-wide,
MySQL server-wide global
lock and everybody wanted in.
So this was seeing in fact on the
order of 4,000 reschedules a second
and it was unable to get above about
10% CPU utilization because of that.
So, what now?
Well, we moved a few of the key tables
out to a separate key cache.
There's some
MySQL configuration for that.
But it didn't actually go much faster.
So, all right, the next thing was to dig
in deeper with Dtrace.
And what we did with Dtrace was to
couple gathering information from
function calls within MySQL to work
out what table was actually involved.
And having identified the table,
it turns out there was a merge table,
so a table that's a view
across four other tables.
And the light went on.
As soon as I mentioned that
to the database administrator,
he was like, ooh.
So that was a query that
was being done as a,
oh, you know,
this might be an easy check and
this might save us work later on.
Let's just do this check.
Well, this check was, in fact,
completely pounding on the
key cache lock for that table.
There was pretty much no way out of that.
However, it turns out that that
check was speculative.
The application didn't need it.
We removed it.
And at this point,
the customer can only tell me that he
doesn't know how much faster it is.
He hasn't been able to get the load
cranked up high enough to find it.
find the limit.
So I wanted to give you that
story as kind of a way to tie in.
I know I've gone across the top
of a lot of different techniques,
but I wanted to give you that sort of
idea of how in real life these tools
apply and can become a way to get
at and solve performance problems.
All right.
So in summary,
we're in an era with big brains,
small pipes, and you've got to spend time
to get those things balanced.
I hope I've given you some tips
and techniques that will help
you in your setup and diagnosis.
And in particular,
pointed out some of the newer
detrace facilities in Leopard
that will help you to do that.
So, with that,
I guess the other thing I wanted to
mention is we have a lab coming up this
afternoon and myself and one of my other,
actually a couple of my other
team members will be there.
I hope you will come by and we
would love to take your questions.
We will demonstrate some spec SFS and
spec web performance runs for you.
So, thank you.